- [Instructor] Now that we have all the utilities downloaded
and the setup is complete.
The next part
of this demo is to write the service definition.
The steps have been listed on the screen.
Let's go through them one by one.
The first one is to create a text file
with the .proto extension and give it a name.
Now you can use any text editor
of your choice for this demo.
I am going to use sublime text editor.
So let's go to that and I've opened a new file.
The first thing that we'll do is let's save this file
and name it employee
dot
proto
and I'm going to save this file in the same proto folder
that I used to download the utilities.
So let's save this,
now before we go to the next step
there are a few things that we need to do
at the beginning of this file.
The first thing is to denote the syntax
of protobufs that we intend to use that is denoted
by the syntax statement.
So it looks like this.
We say syntax equal to proto three.
So we're enforcing that we want to use
the proto three syntax for protocol buffers.
If you do not specify proto three
it will take in proto two.
We don't want that.
So make sure you specify this,
syntax is always the first line of that file.
The next one is the package statement.
So I say package and let's say I say example.
So what this means is that all the auto-generated steps out
of this service file will sit in a package called example.
Packages are usually defined to avoid naming conflicts
between different projects.
Now we know that in this course
we are going to use the Java language.
So all the auto-generated Java stubs will recite
in a package called example.
However, there is an additional option
that you can configure in the proto file
which allows you to explicitly state a Java package.
How do you do that?
Let's see on line number five
I am declaring an option called java underscore package
and I can
give a package name like this.
So this is usually how we define packages in Java.
So line number five indicates
that all the auto-generated Java classes will sit
in a package called com.example.services.
Had we not defined this option?
Then these classes would have sat
in the package called example
that we defined on line number three,
in addition to this
also remember that if you're not using the Java language
then line five will become redundant.
Also
protobufs project insists that
even if you do define a Java underscore package
retain the package statement on line number three
to avoid any conflicts with any protobufs packages.
So we retain both, but please remember that
our classes will get generated in com.example.services.
I would like to define an additional option here
which is called Java
underscore multiple files.
It's a boolean, and I will set this to true.
This means that every auto-generated Java class will sit
in its individual file instead
of clubbing all the classes together in a single file
we do this so that it helps us to look
and navigate onto the classes a little better.
Okay so that's what we've done.
We have defined the syntax that we want to use.
We have the package statement on line three to avoid
any naming conflicts
and we have a couple
of other Java options specific to the Java language.
Let's look at the next step.
The next step will be to define the service.
So let's go ahead and do that.
This is how we define a service.
You write the keyword service and then you name
your service, which is employee service in our case.
That's all.
That's how you define a service.
What is the next step?
Define a method which is getEmployee.
So we need to define that method inside that service.
So on line
nine I will say rpc
because it's a remote procedural call
and give the name of the method.
Now this method
takes an input message
which is employeeRequest,
and
it
returns
an output message
which is employeeResponse.
Now employeeRequest and employeeResponse are
the messages that I have defined in the method
which essentially means that I will have
to specify the definitions of these messages
and that is exactly the next step.
So we have to define those messages in the proto file.
So let's go ahead.
On line 12, how do you define a message?
You have the keyword message
and then you say employeeRequest
have a pair of curly braces for it
and what fields are we going to have in this message?
Just one field, which is the ID.
So I'm going to say int32 ID equal to one.
Okay now what does line 13 mean
int32
is a type
that is used in protobufs in order to indicate
an integer value.
ID is the name of the field.
This name again is going to be your choice
and this int32 ID has been assigned a value of one.
This one is the tag that is used to identify the field
in the binary message when it gets transported
over the HTTP two protocol.
So that is what line 13 means.
So we are done with the defining the employeeRequest.
Let us now define the employeeResponse.
So let's say message employeeResponse
and let's define the fields which are going to
be a part of the response.
So of course we'll have the ID returned
in the response again.
So I'll say int32 ID equal to one.
In addition to that, I have a string
which is a name let's tag this as two
and I have a
designation,
let's tag this as three.
So we have three fields, an ID, a name and a designation
the name and the designation are string values
and they're identified by the string type in protobufs.
In addition to int32 and string
there are many other types that are present
in the protobufs project.
For example, I can put a comment here
and I can quickly list those types out.
You have int64 to represent a long value
you have float double to represent those respective values
and then you also have a bool, which is for boolean.
There is a comprehensive guide, which has got a list
of all the types that you can use in your proto files
and also the options that you can configure in your file.
So let me get rid of this.
We don't need this now
let's save this file and we are done.
So we have written out the service definition.